a primary limitation of the intensively researched polaritonic systems compared to their atomic counterparts for the study of strongly correlated phenomena and many body physics is their relatively weak two particle interactions compared to disorder . here we show how new opportunities to enhance such on site interactions and nonlinearities arise by tuning the exciton polariton dipole moment in electrically biased semiconductor microcavities incorporating wide quantum wells . the applied field results in a twofold enhancement of exciton exciton interactions as well as more efficiently driving relaxation towards low energy polariton states thus reducing condensation threshold .
an emitter in the vicinity of a metal nanostructure is quenched by its decay through nonradiative channels leading to the belief in a zone of inactivity for emitters placed within nm of a plasmonic nanostructure . here we demonstrate and explain why in tightly coupled plasmonic resonators forming nanocavities quenching is quenched due to plasmon mixing . unlike isolated nanoparticles such plasmonic nanocavities show mode hybridization which can massively enhance emitter excitation and decay via radiative channels here experimentally confirmed by laterally dependent emitter placement through dna origami . we explain why this enhancement of excitation and radiative decay can be strong enough to facilitate single molecule strong coupling as evident in dynamic rabi oscillations .
an infinite chain of driven dissipative condensate spins with uniform nearest neighbor coherent coupling is solved analytically and investigated numerically . above a critical occupation threshold the condensates undergo spontaneous spin bifurcation forming a binary chain of spin up or spin down states . minimization of the bifurcation threshold determines the magnetic order as a function of the coupling strength . this allows control of multiple magnetic orders via adiabatic pumping . in addition to ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic ordered states we show the formation of a paired spin ordered state vertical bar . . . up arrow up arrow down arrow down arrow . . . as a consequence of the phase degree of freedom between condensates .
an ultrathin layer of metasurface that almost completely annihilates the reflection of light over a wide range of incident angles is experimentally demonstrated . such zero reflectance metafilms exhibit optimal performance for plasmonic sensing since their sensitivity to changes of local refractive index is far superior to films of nonzero reflectance . since both main detection mechanisms tracking intensity changes and wavelength shifts are improved zero reflectance metafilms are optimal for localized surface plasmon resonance molecular sensing . such nanostructures have significant opportunities in many areas including enhanced light harvesting as well as in developing high performance molecular sensors for a wide range of chemical and biomedical applications .
block copolymer self assembly is a promising route to manufacture functional nanomaterials for applications from nanolithography to optical metamaterials . self assembled cubic morphologies cannot however be conveniently optically characterized in the lab due to their structural isotropy . here the aligned crystallization behavior of a semicrystalline amorphous polyisoprene pplystyrene poly triblock terpolymer was utilized to visualize the grain structure of the cubic microphase separated . morphology . upon quenching from a solvent swollen state iso first self assembles into an alternating gyroid morphology in the confinement of which the peo crystallites preferentially along the least tortuous pathways of the single gyroid morphology with grain sizes of hundreds of micrometers . strikingly the resulting anisotropic alignment of peo crystallites gives rise to a unique optical birefringence of the alternating gyroid domains which allows imaging of the self assembled grain structure by optical microscopy alone . this study provides insight into polymer crystallization within tortuous three dimensional network and establishes a useful method for the optical visualization of cubic bcp morphologies that serve as functional nanomaterial templates .
copper can provide an alternative to gold for the development of efficient low cost and low loss plasmonic nanoparticles as well as selective nanocatalysts . unlike au the surface oxidation of cu nps can be an issue restricting their applicability . here we selectively reduce the cu nps by low power laser illumination in vacuum and use dark field scattering to reveal in real time the optical signatures of the reduction process and its influence on the cu np plasmonic resonance . we then study reactive processes at the single particle level using individual cu catalyst nanoparticles for the selective laser induced chemical vapour deposition of germanium nanostructures . author .
coupling noble metal nanoparticles by a nm gap to an underlying gold mirror confines light to extremely small volumes useful for sensing on the nanoscale . individually measuring of such gold nanoparticles of increasing size dramatically shows the different scaling of their optical scattering and surface enhanced raman emission . linear red shifts of the coupled plasmon modes are seen with increasing size matching theory . the total sers from the few hundred molecules under each nanoparticle dramatically increases with increasing size . this scaling shows that maximum sers emission is always produced from the largest nanoparticles irrespective of tuning to any plasmonic resonances . changes of particle facet with nanoparticle size result in vastly weaker scaling of the near field sers without much modifying the far field and allows simple approaches for optimizing practical sensing .
despite the availability of elaborate varieties of nanoparticles their assembly into regular superstructures and photonic materials remains challenging . here we show how flexible films of stacked polymer nanoparticles can be directly assembled in a roll to roll process using a bending induced oscillatory shear technique . for sub micron spherical nanoparticles this gives elastomeric photonic crystals termed polymer opals showing extremely strong tunable structural colour . with oscillatory strain amplitudes of crystallization initiates at the wall and develops quickly across the bulk within only five oscillations . the resulting structure of random hexagonal close packed layers is improved by shearing bidirectionally alternating between two in plane directions . our theoretical framework indicates how the reduction in shear viscosity with increasing order of each layer accounts for these results even when diffusion is totally absent . this general principle of shear ordering in viscoelastic media opens the way to manufacturable photonic materials and forms a generic tool for ordering nanoparticles .
dynamic control of the spacing between au nanoparticles using nanoarchitectures incorporating the thermoresponsive polymer poly has the capability to induce strong color changes from the plasmon shifts . pnipam self assembles on the surface of au nanoparticles regardless of its terminal group . however in many cases the collapse of this pnipam coating at elevated temperatures fails to cause a color change due to electrostatic and steric repulsion between the au nanoparticles . here it is shown how tuning the charge repulsion between the nanoparticles is crucial to achieve large reversible shifts of the plasmon resonances . using nh terminal groups of the pnipam is most effective compared with sh cooh and terminations due to their synergistic role in citrate stripping and charge neutralization . this detailed understanding of the au pnipam system is vital to enable temperature responsive plasmonic systems with large tuning ranges suitable for applications such as plasmonic actuators displays and raman switches .
dynamic switching of plasmonic monolayers built of gold nanoparticles is achieved using nano coatings of poly . the distance between aunps can be dynamically tuned through the repeatable expansion and contraction of the pnipam shells at different temperatures which results in rapid switching of the optical properties of the aunp monolayer .
emerging autonomous electronic devices require increasingly compact energy generation and storage solutions . merging these two functionalities in a single device would significantly increase their volumetric performance however this is challenging due to material and manufacturing incompatibilities between energy harvesting and storage materials . here we demonstrate that organic inorganic hybrid perovskites can both generate and store energy in a rechargeable device termed a photobattery . this photobattery relies on highly photoactive two dimensional lead halide perovskites to simultaneously achieve photocharging and li ion storage . integrating these functionalities provides simple autonomous power solutions while retaining capacities of up to mah and efficiencies similar to electrodes using a mixture of batteries and solar materials .
emission properties of a quantum emitter can be significantly modified inside nanometre sized gaps between two plasmonic nanostructures . this forms a nanoscopic optical cavity which allows single molecule detection and single molecule strong coupling at room temperature . however plasmonic resonances of a plasmonic nanocavity are highly sensitive to the exact gap morphology . in this article we shed light on the effect of gap morphology on the plasmonic resonances of a faceted nanoparticle on mirror nanocavity and their interaction with quantum emitters . we find that with increasing facet width the npom nanocavity provides weaker field enhancement and thus less coupling strength to a single quantum emitter since the effective mode volume increases with the facet width . however if multiple emitters are present a faceted npom nanocavity is capable of accommodating a larger number of emitters and hence the overall coupling strength is larger due to the collective and coherent energy exchange from all the emitters . our findings pave the way to more efficient designs of nanocavities for room temperature light matter strong coupling thus providing a big step forward to a non cryogenic platform for quantum technologies .
exciton polaritons in high quality semiconductor microcavities can travel long macroscopic distances due to their ultralight effective mass . the polaritons are repelled from optically pumped exciton reservoirs where they are formed however their spatial dynamics is not as expected for pointlike particles . instead we show polaritons emitted into waveguides travel orthogonally to the repulsive potential gradient and can only be explained if they are emitted as macroscopic delocalized quantum particles even before they form bose condensates .
fabricating nanocavities in which optically active single quantum emitters are precisely positioned is crucial for building nanophotonic devices . here we show that self assembly based on robust dna origami constructs can precisely position single molecules laterally within sub nm gaps between plasmonic substrates that support intense optical confinement . by placing single molecules at the center of a nanocavity we show modification of the plasmon cavity resonance before and after bleaching the chromophore and obtain enhancements of with high quantum yield . by varying the lateral position of the molecule in the gap we directly map the spatial profile of the local density of optical states with a resolution of number nm . our approach introduces a straightforward noninvasive way to measure and quantify confined optical modes on the nanoscale .
fluorescence emission of a quantum emitter is dominated by its optical environment and it was proven that an emitter is quenched when it is placed too closed to metal nanoparticles . here we present the spatio temporal dynamics of the emitter and demonstrate that quenching can in fact be suppressed in plasmonic nanocavities . by varying the lateral position of an emitter through dna origami technique our results are confirmed with experimental measurements .
gold gyroid optical metamaterials are known to possess a reduced plasma frequency and linear dichroism imparted by their intricate subwavelength single gyroid morphology . the anisotropic optical properties are however only evident when a large individual gyroid domain is investigated . multidomain gyroid metamaterials fabricated using a polyisoprene polystyrene poly triblock terpolymer and consisting of multiple small gyroid domains with random orientation and handedness instead exhibit isotropic optical properties . comparing three effective medium models we here show that the specular reflectance spectra of such multidomain gyroid optical metamaterials can be accurately modeled over a broad range of incident angles by a bruggeman effective medium consisting of a random wire array . this model accurately reproduces previously published results tracking the variation in normal incidence reflectance spectra of gold gyroid optical metamaterials as a function of host refractive index and volume fill fraction of gold . the effective permittivity derived from this theory confirms the change in sign of the real part of the permittivity in the visible spectral region . that a bruggeman effective medium can accurately model the experimental reflectance spectra implies that small multidomain gold gyroid optical metamaterials behave both qualitatively and quantitatively as an amorphous composite of gold and air and that coherent electromagnetic contributions arising from the subwavelength gyroid symmetry are not dominant .
gold nanostructure arrays exhibit surface plasmon resonances that split after attaching light harvesting complexes and from purple bacteria . the splitting is attributed to strong coupling between the localized surface plasmon resonances and excitons in the light harvesting complexes . wild type and mutant lh and lh from rhodobacter sphaeroides containing different carotenoids yield different splitting energies demonstrating that the coupling mechanism is sensitive to the electronic states in the light harvesting complexes . plasmon exciton coupling models reveal different coupling strengths depending on the molecular organization and the protein coverage consistent with strong coupling . strong coupling was also observed for self assembling polypeptide maquettes that contain only chlorins . however it is not observed for monolayers of bacteriochlorophyll indicating that strong plasmon exciton coupling is sensitive to the specific presentation of the pigment molecules .
hollow metallic nanostructures have shown potential in various applications including catalysis drug delivery and phototherapy owing to their large surface areas reduced net density and unique optical properties . in this study novel hollow gold nanoflowers consisting of an open hollow channel in the center and multiple branches tips on the outer surface are fabricated for the first time via a facile one step synthesis using an auto degradable nanofiber as a bifunctional template . the one dimensional nanofiber acts as both a threading template as well as a promoter of the anisotropic growth of the gold crystal the combination of which leads to the formation of haunfs with a hollow channel and nanospikes . the synergy of favorable structural surface features including sharp edges open cavity and high index facets provides our haunfs with excellent catalytic performance coupled with large single particle sers activity . this innovative synthesis gives a nanostructure of the geometry distinct from the template and is extendable to fabricating other systems for example hollow channel silver nanoflowers . it thus provides an insight into the design of hollow nanostructures via template methods and offers a versatile synthetic strategy for diverse metal nanomaterials suited for a broad range of applications .
hydroxypropyl cellulose a derivative of naturally abundant cellulose can self assemble into helical nanostructures that lead to striking colouration from bragg reflections . the helical periodicity is very sensitive to pressure rendering hpc a responsive photonic material . recent advances in elucidating these hpc mechano chromic properties have so far delivered few real world applications which require both up scaling fabrication and digital translation of their colour changes . here we present roll to roll manufactured metre scale hpc laminates using continuous coating and encapsulation . we quantify the pressure response of the encapsulated hpc using optical analyses of the pressure induced hue change as perceived by the human eye and digital imaging . finally we show the ability to capture real time pressure distributions and temporal evolution of a human foot print on our hpc laminates . this is the first demonstration of a large area and cost effective method for fabricating hpc stimuli responsive photonic films which can generate pressure maps that can be read out with standard cameras .
in order to optimize surface enhanced raman scattering of noble metal nanostructures for enabling chemical identification of analyte molecules careful design of nanoparticle structures must be considered . we spatially map the local sers enhancements across individual microaggregates comprised of monodisperse nanoparticles separated by rigid monodisperse number nm gaps and show the influence of depositing these onto different underlying substrates . experiments and simulations show that the gaps between neighboring nanoparticles dominate the sers enhancement far more than the gaps between nanoparticles and substrate .
in recent years single molecule sensitivity achievable by surface enhanced raman spectroscopy has been widely reported . we use this to investigate supramolecular host guest chemistry with the macrocyclic host cucurbit uril on a few to single molecule level . nanogap geometry comprising individual gold nanoparticles on a planar gold surface spaced by a single layer of molecules gives intense sers signals . plasmonic coupling between the particle and the surface leads to strongly enhanced optical fields in the gap between them with single molecule sensitivity established using a modification of the well known bianalyte method . changes in the raman modes of the host molecule are observed when single guests included inside its cavity internally stretch it . anisotropic intermolecular interactions with the guest are found which show additional distinct features in the raman modes of the host molecule .
in the light matter strong coupling regime the excited state of quantum emitters is inextricably linked to a photonic mode leading to hybrid states that are part light and part matter . recently there has been a huge effort to realize strong coupling with nanoplasmonics since it provides a versatile environment to study and control molecules in ambient conditions . among the most promising designs are plasmonic nanocavities that confine light to unprecedentedly small volumes . such nanocavities though support multiple types of modes with different field profiles and radiative decay rates . here we show theoretically that the different nature of these modes leads to mode beating within the nanocavity and the rabi oscillations which alters the spatiotemporal dynamics of the hybrid system . by specifically designing the illumination setup we decompose and control the dark and bright plasmon mode excitation and therefore their coupling with quantum emitters . hence this work opens new routes for dynamically dressing emitters to tailor their hybrid states with external radiation .
in this chapter we introduce the basic characteristics of light modes in free space and in different kinds of optically confined structures including bragg mirrors planar microcavities pillars and spheres . we describe the powerful transfer matrix method that allows for solution of maxwell equations in multilayer structures . we discuss the polarisation of light and mention different ways it is modified including the faraday and kerr effects optical birefringence dichroism and optical activity .
in this work a variant of a kretschmann type surface plasmon resonance sensor is introduced . space imaging is combined with half ball glass optics to facilitate the measurement of sprs across the visible spectral range . in contrast to current state of the art techniques which are widely utilized in commercially available systems the presented method allows single shot acquisition of the full angular reflection without any moving parts as well as mapping of the surface plasmon dispersion by scanning across the entire visible wavelength range . measurements on various thin metallic films demonstrate the sensitivity of the system towards minute changes of the metal surface and its close vicinity . the fast and precise measurement of surface plasmon resonances paves the way for improved detection in applications such as immunoassays or gas sensors especially for real time in situ measurements . published by aip publishing .
interactions between a single emitter and cavity provide the archetypical system for fundamental quantum electrodynamics . here we show that a single molecule of atto aligned using dna origami interacts coherently with a sub wavelength plasmonic nanocavity approaching the cooperative regime even at room temperature . power dependent pulsed excitation reveals rabi oscillations arising from the coupling of the oscillating electric field between the ground and excited states . the observed single molecule fluorescent emission is split into two modes resulting from anti crossing with the plasmonic mode indicating the molecule is strongly coupled to the cavity . the second order correlation function of the photon emission statistics is found to be pump wavelength dependent varying from number to number highlighting the influence of vibrational relaxation on the jaynes cummings ladder . our results show that cavity quantum electrodynamic effects can be observed in molecular systems at ambient conditions opening significant potential for device applications .
large area dynamic switchable plasmonic metafilms composed of a network of gold nanoparticles and the thermo responsive polymer poly are self assembled by casting au pnipam core shell nanoparticles . these dense plasmonic films present an unusual optical behavior arising from the macroscale effective medium response of the film and the microscopic interactions of the gold nanoparticles . such intensely colored plasmonic metafilms can be thermally actuated across large areas via direct heating allowing extraction of the tuning of the effective dielectric permittivity of this metamaterial . by contrast local plasmonic heating by illuminating the au nps in these metafilms enables sub second and highly reversible contraction of the plasmonic metafilms capable of pumping water . this work provides a paradigm for switchable metafilms and metasurfaces that can be harnessed for different applications such as sensing imaging optics and image displays .
metallic structures with nanogap features have proven highly effective as building blocks for plasmonic systems as they can provide a wide tuning range of operating frequencies and large near field enhancements . recent work has shown that quantum mechanical effects such as electron tunnelling and nonlocal screening become important as the gap distances approach the subnanometre length scale . such quantum effects challenge the classical picture of nanogap plasmons and have stimulated a number of theoretical and experimental studies . this review outlines the findings of many groups into quantum mechanical effects in nanogap plasmons and discusses outstanding challenges and future directions .
microfluidic microdroplets have increasingly found application in biomolecular sensing as well as nanomaterials growth . more recently the synthesis of plasmonic nanostructures in microdroplets has led to surface enhanced raman spectroscopy based sensing applications . however the study of nanoassembly in microdroplets has previously been hindered by the lack of on chip characterization tools particularly at early timescales . enabled by a refractive index matching microdroplet formulation dark field spectroscopy is exploited to directly track the formation of nanometer spaced gold nanoparticle assemblies in microdroplets . measurements in flow provide millisecond time resolution through the assembly process allowing identification of a regime where dimer formation dominates the dark field scattering and sers . furthurmore it is shown that small numbers of nanoparticles can be isolated in microdroplets paving the way for simple high yield assembly isolation and sorting of few nanoparticle structures .
nanoactuators and nanomachines have long been sought after but key bottlenecks remain . forces at submicrometer scales are weak and slow control is hard to achieve and power cannot be reliably supplied . despite the increasing complexity of nanodevices such as dna origami and molecular machines rapid mechanical operations are not yet possible . here we bind temperature responsive polymers to charged au nanoparticles storing elastic energy that can be rapidly released under light control for repeatable isotropic nanoactuation . optically heating above a critical temperature c degrees using plasmonic absorption of an incident laser causes the coatings to expel water and collapse within a microsecond to the nanoscale millions of times faster than the base polymer . this triggers a controllable number of nanoparticles to tightly bind in clusters . surprisingly by cooling below c their strong van der waals attraction is overcome as the polymer expands exerting nanoscale forces of several nn . this large force depends on van der waals attractions between au cores being very large in the collapsed polymer state setting up a tightly compressed polymer spring which can be triggered into the inflated state . our insights lead toward rational design of diverse colloidal nanomachines .
nanoactuators are a key component for developing nanomachinery . here an electrically driven device yielding actuation stresses exceeding mpa withintegrated optical readout is demonstrated . nm thick al electrolyte films are sandwiched between graphene and au electrodes . these allow reversible room temperature solid state redox reactions producing al metal and gas in a memristive type switching device . the resulting high pressure oxygen micro fuel reservoirs are encapsulated under the graphene swelling to heights of up to mu which can be dynamically tracked by plasmonic rulers . unlike standard memristors where the memristive redox reaction occurs in single or few conductive filaments the mechanical deformation forces the creation of new filaments over the whole area of the inflated film . the resulting on off resistance ratios reach in some cycles . the synchronization of nanoactuation and memristive switching in these devices is compatible with large scale fabrication and has potential for precise and electrically monitored actuation technology .
nanocomposite thin films comprised of metastable metal carbides in a carbon matrix have a wide variety of applications ranging from hard coatings to magnetics and energy storage and conversion . while their deposition using nonequilibrium techniques is established the understanding of the dynamic evolution of such metastable nanocomposites under thermal equilibrium conditions at elevated temperatures during processing and during device operation remains limited . here we investigate sputter deposited nanocomposites of metastable nickel carbide nanocrystals in an amorphous carbon matrix during thermal postdeposition processing via complementary in situ ray diffractometry in situ raman spectroscopy and in situ xray photoelectron .spectroscopy . at low annealing temperatures we observe isothermal ni decomposition into face centered cubic ni and amorphous carbon however without changes to the initial finely structured nanocomposite morphology . only for higher temperatures ni catalyzed isothermal graphitization of the amorphous carbon matrix sets in which we link to bulk diffusion mediated phase separation of the nanocomposite into coarser ni and graphite grains . upon natural cooling only minimal precipitation of additional carbon from the ni is observed showing that even for highly carbon saturated systems precipitation upon cooling can be kinetically quenched . our findings demonstrate that phase transformations of the filler and morphology modifications of the nanocomposite can be decoupled which is advantageous from a manufacturing perspective . our in situ study also identifies the high carbon content of the ni filler crystallites at all stages of processing as the key hallmark feature of such metal carbon nanocomposites that governs their entire thermal evolution . in a wider context we also discuss our findings with regard to the much debated potential role of metastable ni as a catalyst phase in graphene and carbon nanotube growth .
nanomachines capable of controlled programmable work at the nanoscale promise to revolutionize a vast range of research and eventually should impact on daily lives . due to the ease of design and modification dna origami is emerging as a natural platform to build such machines . however one essential challenge is the controlled and rapid actuation of dna origami using an external biocompatible stimulus . here actuation based on temperature induced phase transitions of the thermo responsive polymer poly is reported . by incorporating this polymer into dna origami structures on either side of a flexible region a dna origami flexor is created that uses the tunable pnipam hydrophobicity to reversibly open and close the dna structures . such a mechanism has the advantage of being versatile and biocompatible and possessing strong response to temperature changes of a few degrees kelvin .
nanoparticle encapsulation inside zirconium based metal organic frameworks is hard to control and the resulting materials often have nonuniform morphologies with nps on the external surface of mofs and np aggregates inside the mofs . in this work we report the controlled encapsulation of gold nanorods by a scu topology zr mof via a room temperature mof assembly . this is achieved by functionalizing the aunrs with poly surface ligands allowing them to retain colloidal stability in the precursor solution and to seed the mof growth . using this approach we achieve core shell yields exceeding tuning the mof particle size via the solution concentration of aunrs . the functionality of aunr mofs is demonstrated by using the aunrs as embedded probes for selective surface enhanced raman spectroscopy . the aunr mofs are able to both take up or block molecules from the pores thereby facilitating highly selective sensing at the aunr ends . this proof of principle study serves to present both the outstanding level of control in the synthesis and the high potential for aunr zr mof composites for sers .
nanoparticles attached just above a flat metallic surface can trap optical fields in the nanoscale gap . this enables local spectroscopy of a few molecules within each coupled plasmonic hotspot with near thousand fold enhancement of the incident fields . as a result of non radiative relaxation pathways the plasmons in such sub nanometre cavities generate hot charge carriers which can catalyse chemical reactions or induce redox processes in molecules located within the plasmonic hotspots . here surface enhanced raman spectroscopy allows us to track these hot electron induced chemical reduction processes in a series of different aromatic molecules . we demonstrate that by increasing the tunnelling barrier height and the dephasing strength a transition from coherent to hopping electron transport occurs enabling observation of redox processes in real time at the single molecule level .
nature often uses structuring of materials for coloration rather than incorporating dye molecules since single construction materials are capable of producing any vivid visible color in plants and insects . by precisely engineering features that diffract or scatter light more recently humans have created similarly intense non fading colors . stretchable polymer opals have emerged as a single material which can dynamically shift across the whole visible spectrum using structural colors by temporary stretching or compression . for energy efficiency and practical considerations however it is necessary to fix semi permanently desired colors without continuous stretching or application of other stimuli or energy . here a polymer opal incorporating a shape memory polymer embedded in its matrix can keep a particular color fixed without the application of external forces yet can be reprogrammed to a different fixed color on demand . the influence of the material composition on its optical appearance shape fixity and shape recovery abilities in controlled stretch experiments is quantified . high speed printing compatible localized compression pattern imprinting is shown to generate stable but easily erasable color patterns . this opens up the potential for durable and energy efficient yet reusable and reconfigurable displays wearables or packaging and security labeling based on such polymeric film materials .
noble metallic nanostructures provide a platform for high sensitivity spectroscopic sensing with significantly enhanced electromagnetic fields due to surface plasmon polaritons . however target molecules can be transformed into other molecules under irradiation with an excitation laser during the surface enhanced measurement which thus disturbs detection of unknown samples . in this paper we perform raman measurements of aminothiophenol on gold nanosurfaces with and without deposition of sio thin films at the surface . the raman signals are enhanced on both substrates but the deposition of the glass thin film clearly prevents the chemical transformation . this indicates that hot electrons are effective for chemical transformation and that thin glass films are sufficient to prevent this while still benefiting from surface plasmons .
open source hardware has the potential to revolutionise the way we build scientific instruments with the advent of readily available printers mechanical designs can now be shared improved and replicated faster and more easily than ever before . however printed parts are typically plastic and often perform poorly compared to traditionally machined mechanisms . we have overcome many of the limitations of printed mechanisms by exploiting the compliance of the plastic to produce a monolithic printed flexure translation stage capable of sub micron scale motion over a range of x mm . this requires minimal post print clean up and can be automated with readily available stepper motors . the resulting plastic composite structure is very stiff and exhibits remarkably low drift moving less than mu over the course of a week without temperature stabilisation . this enables us to construct a miniature microscope with excellent mechanical stability perfect for time lapse measurements in situ in an incubator or fume hood . the ease of manufacture lends itself to use in containment facilities where disposability is advantageous and to experiments requiring many microscopes in parallel . high performance mechanisms based on printed flexures need not be limited to microscopy and we anticipate their use in other devices both within the laboratory and beyond . author .
photon emitters placed in an optical cavity experience an environment that changes how they are coupled to the surrounding light field . in the weak coupling regime the extraction of light from the emitter is enhanced . but more profound effects emerge when single emitter strong coupling occurs mixed states are produced that are part light part matter forming building blocks for quantum information systems and for ultralow power switches and lasers . such cavity quantum electrodynamics has until now been the preserve of low temperatures and complicated fabrication methods compromising its use . here by scaling the cavity volume to less than cubic nanometres and using host guest chemistry to align one to ten protectively isolated methylene blue molecules we reach the strong coupling regime at room temperature and in ambient conditions . dispersion curves from more than such plasmonic nanocavities display characteristic light matter mixing with rabi frequencies of millielectronvolts for ten methylene blue molecules decreasing to millielectronvolts for single molecules matching quantitative models . statistical analysis of vibrational spectroscopy time series and dark field scattering spectra provides evidence of single molecule strong coupling . this dressing of molecules with light can modify photochemistry opening up the exploration of complex natural processes such as photosynthesis and the possibility of manipulating chemical bonds .
plasmonic interactions between two metallic tips are dynamically studied in a supercontinuum dark field microscope and the transition between coupled and charge transfer plasmons is directly observed in the sub nm regime . simultaneous measurement of the dc current applied force and optical scattering as the tips come together is used to determine the effects of conductive pathways within the plasmonic nano gap . critical conductances are experimentally identified for the first time determining the points at which quantum tunnelling and conductive charge transport begin to influence plasmon coupling . these results advance our understanding of the relationship between conduction and plasmonics and the fundamental quantum mechanical behaviours of plasmonic coupling .
plasmon induced polymerization can facilitate the site selectivity and orientation of polymer growth which enriches the toolbox of polymerization and nanofabrication . here we demonstrate plasmon induced polymerization accomplished by low power laser excitation of gold nanoparticles . we selectively control the growth of polymers around single plasmonic nps while monitoring the polymerization using dark field spectroscopy and subsequent scanning electron microscopy . this plasmon induced polymerization generated by hot electron initiation not only precisely controls the thickness and composition of the polymer coatings but also regulates the location and orientation of the growth which are strongly influenced by the laser polarization and near field distribution around the plasmonic nps . saturation increase in the polymer thickness provides a strong support for our mechanism . this facile approach of nanoscale polymerization directed by light not only provides new opportunities in nanosynthesis and nanofabrication for functional devices but also opens many routes for polymer physics and chemistry at the nanoscale level .
polarized optical dark field spectroscopy is shown to be a versatile noninvasive probe of plasmonic structures that trap light to the nanoscale . clear spectral polarization splittings are found to be directly related to the asymmetric morphology of nanocavities formed between faceted gold nanoparticles and an underlying gold substrate . both experiment and simulation show the influence of geometry on the coupled system with spectral shifts delta lambda nm from single atoms . analytical models allow us to identify the split resonances as transverse cavity modes tightly confined to the nanogap . the direct correlation of resonance splitting with atomistic morphology allows mapping of subnanometre structures which is crucial for progress in extreme nano optics involving chemistry nanophotonics and quantum devices .
practical challenges to extrapolating moore law favour alternatives to electrons as information carriers . two promising candidates are spin based and all optical architectures the former offering lower energy consumption the latter superior signal transfer down to the level of chip interconnects . polaritons spinor quasi particles composedof semiconductor excitons and microcavity photons directly couple exciton spins and photon polarizations combining the advantages of both approaches . however their implementation for spintronics has been hindered because polariton spins can be manipulated only optically or by strong magnetic fields . here we use an external electric field to directly control the spin of a polariton condensate bias tuning the emission polarization . the nonlinear spin dynamics offers an alternative route to switching allowing us to realize an electrical spinswitch exhibiting ultralow switching energies below number fj . our results lay the foundation for development of devices based on the electro optical control of coherent spin ensemblesona chip .
reproducible confinement of light on the nanoscale is essential for the ability to observe and control chemical reactions at the single molecule level . here we reliably form millions of identical nanocavities and show that the light can be further focused down to the subnanometer scale via the creation of picocavities single adatom protrusions with angstrom level resolution . for the first time we stabilize and analyze these cavities at room temperatures through high speed surface enhanced raman spectroscopy on specifically selected molecular components collecting and analyzing more than million spectra . data obtained on these picocavities allows us to deduce structural information on the nanoscale showing that thiol binding to gold destabilizes the metal surface to optical irradiation . nitrile moieties are found to stabilize picocavities by fold against their disappearance typically surviving for . such constructs demonstrate the accessibility of single molecule chemistry under ambient conditions .
rigid gap nano aggregates of au nanoparticles formed using cucurbit uril molecules are used to investigate the competitive binding of ethanol and methanol in an aqueous environment . we show it is possible to detect as little as number methanol in water and a ten times higher affinity to methanol over ethanol making this a useful technology for quality control in alcohol production . we demonstrate strong interaction effects in the sers peaks which we demonstrate are likely from the hydrogen bonding of water complexes in the vicinity of the cb s .
single nanoparticles are shownto develop a localized acoustic resonance the bouncing mode when placed on a substrate . if both substrate and nanoparticle are noble metals plasmonic coupling of the nanoparticle to its image charges in the film induces tight light confinement in the nanogap . this yields ultrastrong acoustoplasmonic coupling with a figure of merit orders of magnitude higher than conventional acoustooptic modulators . the plasmons thus act as a local vibrational probe of the contact geometry . simple analytical mechanical model is found to describe the bouncing mode in terms of the nanoscale structure allowing transient pump probe spectroscopy to directly measure the contact area for individual nanoparticles .
small numbers of surface bound molecules are shown to behave as would be expected for optomechanical oscillators placed inside plasmonic nanocavities that support extreme confinement of optical fields . pulsed raman scattering reveals superlinear stokes emission above a threshold arising from the stimulated vibrational pumping of molecular bonds under pulsed excitation shorter than the phonon decay time and agreeing with pulsed optomechanical quantum theory . reaching the parametric instability is however hindered by the motion of gold atoms and molecular reconfiguration at phonon occupations approaching unity . we show how this irreversible bond breaking can ultimately limit the exploitation of molecules as quantum mechanical oscillators but accesses optically driven chemistry .
strong coupling of monolayer metal dichalcogenide semiconductors with light offers encouraging prospects for realistic exciton devices at room temperature . however the nature of this coupling depends extremely sensitively on the optical confinement and the orientation of electronic dipoles and fields . here we show how plasmon strong coupling can be achieved in compact robust and easily assembled gold nano gap resonators at room temperature . we prove that strong coupling is impossible with monolayers due to the large exciton coherence size but resolve clear anti crossings for greater than layer devices with rabi splittings exceeding mev . we show that such structures improve on prospects for nonlinear exciton functionalities by at least while retaining quantum efficiencies above and demonstrate evidence for superlinear light emission .
structured metallic tips are increasingly important for optical spectroscopies such as tip enhanced raman spectroscopy with plasmonic resonances frequently cited as a mechanism for electric field enhancement . we probe the local optical response of sharp and spherical tipped atomic force microscopy tips using a scanning hyperspectral imaging technique to identify the plasmonic behaviour . localised surface plasmon resonances which radiatively couple with far field light are found only for spherical afm tips with little response for sharp afm tips in agreement with numerical simulations of the near field response . the precise tip geometry is thus crucial for plasmon enhanced spectroscopies and the typical sharp cones are not preferred . published by aip publishing .
the efficacy with which solvent vapor annealing can control block copolymer self assembly has so far been demonstrated primarily for the simplest class of copolymer the linear diblock copolymer . adding a third distinct block thereby creating a triblock terpolymer not only provides convenient access to complex continuous network morphologies particularly the gyroid phases but also opens up a route toward the fabrication of novel nanoscale devices such as optical metamaterials . such applications however require the generation of well ordered continuous networks which in turn requires a detailed understanding of the sva process in terpolymer network morphologies . here in situ grazing incidence small angle ray scattering is employed to study the self assembly of a gyroid forming triblock terpolymer during sva revealing the effects of several key sva parameters on the morphology lateral order and in particular its preservation in the dried film . the robustness of the terpolymer gyroid morphology is a key requirement for successful sva allowing the exploration of annealing parameters which may enable the generation of films with long range order .g . for optical metamaterial applications .
the mechanism by which light is emitted from plasmonic metals such as gold and silver has been contentious particularly at photon energies below direct interband transitions . using nanoscale plasmonic cavities blue pumped light emission is found to directly track dark field scattering on individual nanoconstructs . by exploiting slow atomic scale restructuring of the nanocavity facets to spectrally tune the dominant gap plasmons this correlation can be measured from to nm in gold silver and mixed constructs ranging from spherical to cube nanoparticles on mirror . we show that prompt electronic raman scattering is responsible and confirm that photoluminescence which implies phase and energy relaxation is not the right description . our model suggests how to maximize light emission from metals .
the near field and far field spectral response of plasmonic systems are often assumed to be identical due to the lack of methods that can directly compare and correlate both responses under similar environmental conditions . we develop a widely tunable optical technique to probe the near field resonances within individual plasmonic nanostructures that can be directly compared to the corresponding far field response . in tightly coupled nanoparticle on mirror constructs with nanometer sized gaps we find mev blue shifts of the near field compared to the dark field scattering peak which agrees with full electromagnetic simulations . using a transformation optics approach we show such shifts arise from the different spectral interference between different gap modes in the near and far field . the control and tuning of near field and far field responses demonstrated here is of paramount importance in the design of optical nanostructures for field enhanced spectroscopy as well as to control near field activity monitored through the far field of nano optical devices .
the precise morphology of nanoscale gaps between noble metal nanostructures controls their resonant wavelengths . here we show photocatalytic plasmon induced polymerization can locally enlarge the gap size and tune the plasmon resonances . we demonstrate light directed programmable tuning of plasmons can be self limiting . selective control of polymer growth around individual plasmonic nanoparticles is achieved with simultaneous real time monitoring of the polymerization process in situ using dark field spectroscopy . even without initiators present we show light triggered chain growth of various monomers implying plasmon initiation of free radicals via hot electron transfer to monomers at the au surface . this concept not only provides a programmable way to fine tune plasmons for many applications but also provides a window on polymer chemistry at the sub nanoscale .
the resonance wavelength of a coupled plasmonic system is extremely sensitive to the distance between its metallic surfaces resulting in plasmon rulers . we explore this behavior in the subnanometer regime using self assembled monolayers of bis phthalocyanine molecules in a nanoparticle on mirror construct . these allow unprecedented subangstrom control over spacer thickness via choice of metal center in a gap size regime at the quantum mechanical limit of plasmonic enhancement . dramatic shift in the coupled plasmon resonance is observed as the gap size is varied from number to number nm . existing theoretical models are unable to account for the observed spectral tuning which requires inclusion of the quantum classical interface emphasizing the need for new treatments of light at the subnanoscale .
the stability of spin of macroscopic quantum states to intrinsic noise is studied for non resonantly pumped optically trapped polariton condensates . we demonstrate flipping between the two spin polarised states with slow down of the flip rate by tuning the optical pump power . individual spin flips faster than ps are time resolved using single shot streak camera imaging . we reproduce our results within a mean field model accounting for cross spin scattering between excitons and polaritons yielding a ratio of cross to co spin scattering of similar to number in contrast with previous literature suggestions .
the surface enhanced raman scattering of molecular species in plasmonic cavities can be described as an optomechanical process where plasmons constitute an optical cavity of reduced effective mode volume which effectively couples to the vibrations of the molecules . an optomechanical hamiltonian can address the full quantum dynamics of the system including the phonon population build up the vibrational pumping regime and the stokes anti stokes correlations of the photons emitted . here we describe in detail two different levels of approximation to the methodological solution of the optomechanical hamiltonian of a generic sers configuration and compare the results of each model in light of recent experiments . furthermore a phenomenological semi classical approach based on a rate equation of the phonon population is demonstrated to be formally equivalent to that obtained from the full quantum optomechanical approach . the evolution of the raman signal with laser intensity is accurately addressed when this phenomenological semi classical approach is properly extended to account for the anti stokes process . the formal equivalence between semi classical and molecular optomechanics descriptions allows us to describe the vibrational pumping regime of sers through the classical cross sections which characterize a nanosystem thus setting a roadmap to describing molecular optomechanical effects in a variety of experimental situations .
thermoresponsive polymers can be used to rapidly actuate individual nanoparticles forming nanomechanical oscillators . such systems are realized here with poly coated gold nanoparticles deposited on gold films which have a strong optical response that can be dynamically tracked . changes in temperature surrounding the nanoparticles result in the contraction or expansion of the pnipam coating thereby displacing the gold nanoparticles up and down on the gold mirror . particle oscillation is optically monitored via the spectral position of the coupled plasmon modes achieving sub millisecond translocation speeds when actuated by light via plasmonic heating . these fast nano oscillators can also generate forces exceeding nn with efficiencies already exceeding which makes them ideal prototypes for nanomachines .
topological phases derived from point degeneracies in photonic band structures show intriguing and unique behavior . previously identified band degeneracies are based on accidental degeneracies and subject to engineering on a case by case basis . here we show that deterministic pseudo weyl points with nontrivial topology and hyperconic dispersion exist at the brillouin zone center of chiral cubic symmetries . this conceivably allows realization of topologically protected frequency isolated surface bands in and properties as demonstrated for a nanoplasmonic system and a photonic crystal .
trapping light with noble metal nanostructures overcomes the diffraction limit and can confine light to volumes typically on the order of cubic nanometers . we found that individual atomic features inside the gap of a plasmonic nanoassembly can localize light to volumes well below cubic nanometer enabling optical experiments on the atomic scale . these atomic features are dynamically formed and disassembled by laser irradiation . although unstable at room temperature picocavities can be stabilized at cryogenic temperatures allowing single atomic cavities to be probed for many minutes . unlike traditional optomechanical resonators such extreme optical confinement yields a factor of enhancement of optomechanical coupling between the picocavity field and vibrations of individualmolecular bonds . this work sets the basis for developing nanoscale nonlinear quantum optics on the single molecule level .
tunable spin correlations are found to arise between two neighboring trapped exciton polariton condensates which spin polarize spontaneously . we observe a crossover from an antiferromagnetic to a ferromagnetic pair state by reducing the coupling barrier in real time using control of the imprinted pattern of pump light . fast optical switching of both condensates is then achieved by resonantly but weakly triggering only a single condensate . these effects can be explained as the competition between spin bifurcations and spin preserving josephson coupling between the two condensates and open the way to polariton bose hubbard ladders .
under uv illumination polymer films can undergo chain scission and contract . using this effect tightly focused laser light is shown to develop runaway near field concentration that drills sub nm pits through a thin film . this subwavelength photolithography can be controlled in real time by monitoring laser scatter from the evolving holes allowing systematic control of the void diameter . our model shows how interference between the substrate and film together with near field focusing by the evolving crevice directs this formation and predicts minimum pit sizes in films of nm thickness on gold substrates . the smallest features so far are nm diameter pits using nm light focused onto polystyrene through a objective . such arrays of pits can be easily used as masks for fabricating more complex nanostructures such as plasmonic nanostructures and biomicrofluidic devices . this demonstration shows the potential for harnessing near field feedback in optical direct writing for nanofabrication .
we demonstrate a simple scalable fabrication method for producing large area arrays of vertically stacked metallic micro rings embedded in a deformable polymer sheet . unusual polarisation dependent hotspots are found to dominate the reflection images . to understand their origin the arrays are characterized using point scanning optical spectroscopy and directly compared to numerical simulations . individual ring stacks act as microlenses while polarisation dependent hotspots arise at the connections between neighbouring stacks which are comprised of parabolically arranged parallel gold nanowires . the elastomeric properties of the polymer host opens the door to active control of the optics of this photonic material through dynamic tuning of the nanowire spacings and array geometry . published by the optical society under the terms of the creative commons attribution number license .
we demonstrate electrical control of the neutral exciton fine structure splitting in a single inas gaas self assembled quantum dot by significantly reducing the splitting to near zero through the application of a vertical electric field in the fast electron tunneling regime . this is verified by performing high resolution photocurrent spectroscopy of the two fine structure split exciton eigenstates as a function of reverse bias voltage . using the qubit initialization scheme for a quantum dot hole spin based on rapid electric field ionization of a spin polarized exciton our results suggest a practical approach towards achieving qubit initialization with near unity fidelity in the absence of magnetic fields .
we demonstrate that multiply coupled spinor polariton condensates can be optically tuned through a sequence of spin ordered phases by changing the coupling strength between nearest neighbors . for closed four condensate chains these phases span from ferromagnetic to antiferromagnetic separated by an unexpected crossover phase . this crossover phase is composed of alternating fm afm bonds . for larger eight condensate chains we show the critical role of spatial inhomogeneities and demonstrate a scheme to overcome them and prepare any desired spin state . our observations thus demonstrate a fully controllable nonequilibrium spin lattice .
we demonstrate that the synchronization of a lattice of solid state condensates when intersite tunneling is switched on depends strongly on the weak local disorder . this finding is vital for implementation of condensate arrays as computation devices . the condensates here are nonlinear bosonic fluids of exciton polaritons trapped in a weakly disordered bose hubbard potential where the nearest neighboring tunneling rate can be dynamically tuned . the system can thus be tuned from a localized to a delocalized fluid as the number density or the josephson coupling between nearest neighbors increases . the localized fluid is observed as a lattice of unsynchronized condensates emitting at different energies set by the disorder potential . in the delocalized phase the condensates synchronize and long range order appears evidenced by narrowing of momentum and energy distributions new diffraction peaks in momentum space and spatial coherence between condensates . our paper identifies similarities and differences of this nonequilibrium crossover to the traditional bose glass to superfluid transition in atomic condensates .
we fabricate heterocomponent dimers built from a single nm gold and a single nm silver nanoparticle separated by sub nm gaps . successful assembly mediated by a specialized dna origami platform is verified by scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive ray characterization . dark field optical scattering on individual dimers is consistent with computational simulations . direct plasmonic coupling between each nanoparticle is observed in both experiment and theory only for these small gap sizes as it requires the silver dipolar mode energy to drop below the energy of the gold interband transitions . new interparticle spacing dependent coupling model for heterodimers is thus required . such janus like nanoparticle constructs available from dna mediated assembly provide an effective tool for controlling symmetry breaking in collective plasmon modes .
we perform precise measurements of the permanent dipole moment and polarizability of both the neutral exciton and positive trion in a single inas gaas self assembled quantum dot . this is achieved through one and two color high resolution photocurrent spectroscopy of and respectively using ultra narrow bandwidth continuous wave lasers . this technique allows for sub mu ev resolution which is limited only by the spectral linewidth of the lasers and is more than four orders of magnitude higher than that of previous techniques . we are therefore permitted to obtain precise values for the permanent dipole moment and polarizability of both and by fitting an appropriate theoretical model to the measured transition energies as a function of electric field . as a sequence of protocols for the optical initialization manipulation and readout of a qd hole spin qubit embedded in a photodiode device relies on the coherent control of both and as intermediary states such precise measurements of their dipole moment and polarizability using high resolution pc spectroscopy are crucial for implementing these quantum computing protocols with high fidelity .
we report spin and intensity coupling of an exciton polariton condensate to the mechanical vibrations of a circular membrane microcavity . we optically drive the microcavity resonator at the lowest mechanical resonance frequency while creating an optically trapped spin polarized polariton condensate in different locations on the microcavity and observe spin and intensity oscillations of the condensate at the vibration frequency of the resonator . spin oscillations are induced by vibrational strain driving whilst the modulation of the optical trap due to the displacement of the membrane causes intensity oscillations in the condensate emission . our results demonstrate spinphonon coupling in a macroscopically coherent condensate . published by aip publishing .
we report the light induced formation . of conductive links across nanometer wide insulating gaps . these are realized by incorporating spacers of molecules or monolayers inside a gold plasmonic nanoparticle on mirror geometry . laser irradiation of individual npoms controllably reshapes and tunes the plasmonic system in some cases forming conductive bridges between particle and substrate which shorts the nanometer wide plasmonic gaps geometrically and . electronically . dark field spectroscopy monitors the bridge formation in situ revealing strong plasmonic mode mixing dominated by clear anticrossings . finite difference time domain simulations confirm this spectral evolution which gives insights into the metal filament formation . simple analytic cavity model describes the observed plasmonic mode hybridization between tightly confined plasmonic cavity modes and a radiative antenna mode sustained in the npom . our results show how optics can reveal the properties of electrical transport across well defined metallic nanogaps to study and develop technologies such as resistive memory devices . .
we review recent advances in the generation of photonics materials over large areas and volumes using the paradigm of shear induced ordering of composite polymer nanoparticles . the hard core soft shell design of these particles produces quasi solid gum like media with a viscoelastic ensemble response to applied shear in marked contrast to the behavior seen in colloidal and granular systems . applying an oscillatory shearing method to sub micron spherical nanoparticles gives elastomeric photonic crystals with intense tunable structural color . the further engineering of this shear ordering using a controllable roll to roll process known as bending induced oscillatory shear together with the interchangeable nature of the base composite particles opens potentially transformative possibilities for mass manufacture of nano ordered materials including advances in optical materials photonics and metamaterials plasmonics .
we study experimentally and theoretically the optimization of surface enhanced raman scattering from nanoplasmonic clusters of gold nanoparticles separated by a fixed subnanometer gap . to maximize the enhancement we discuss how the optimal cluster size is influenced by the constituent nanoparticle size and illumination wavelength . we find good qualitative agreement between the experimental sers from nanoparticle clusters and a simple composite model that describes the response of the full cluster as arising from a composition of linear nanochains . for fixed illumination wavelengths encountered experimentally it is best to choose a cluster size that supports its lowest energy resonance near this wavelength . our chain simulations indicate the existence of an optimal length also when the illumination laser is continuously tuned to the frequency that maximizes the signal . we explain the optimal length under these illumination conditions with a simple model that accounts explicitly for radiative losses .
we study in real time the optical response of individual plasmonic nanoparticles on a mirror utilized as electrodes in an electrochemical cell when a voltage is applied . in this geometry au nanoparticles are separated from a bulk au film by an ultrathin molecular spacer . the nanoscale plasmonic hotspot underneath the nanoparticles locally reveals the modified charge on the au surface and changes in the polarizability of the molecular spacer . dark field and raman spectroscopy performed on the same nanoparticle show our ability to exploit isolated plasmonic junctions to track the dynamics of nanoelectrochemistry . enhancements in raman emission and blue shifts at a negative potential show the ability to shift electrons within the gap molecules .
we study the optical response of individual nm wide plasmonic nanocavities using a nanoparticle on mirror design utilised as an electrode in an electrochemical cell . in this geometry au nanoparticles are separated from a bulk au film by an ultrathin molecular spacer giving intense and stable raman amplification of molecules . modulation of the plasmonic spectra and the sers response is observed with an applied voltage under a variety of electrolytes . different scenarios are discussed to untangle the various mechanisms that can be involved in the electronic interaction between nps and electrode surfaces .
